CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
(Thomas, G. G., & Wagiu, E. (2019). ALUMNI TRACER STUDY SYSTEM DESIGN USING WEB-BASED GPS (CASE STUDY OF UNIVERSITAS ADVENT INDONESIA). Abstract Proceedings International Scholars Conference, 7(1), 1826-1841. https://doi.org/10.35974/isc.v7i1.2006 ) Graduate is one of the important support in the development of a university. Graduate have a role to assist universities in developing the university into the community through collaboration in academic terms. (2019-12-18 ).
A new online system was made to help universities track their graduates' locations, making it easier to find out where they are now. This system aims to solve the difficulties of keeping track of alumni.

Alumni are the most important asset of any educational institutions, its support in the development of a university. They are the peoples who represents the colleges or universities organizations in real world. The development of alumni tracer management system is a software designed to traces alumni employment and status of the graduates and manage the relationships between an institution and its graduates. This system will serve as a centralized database repository for storing and managing of the whereabouts, the jobs and the other information’s of the graduates including contact details that might be helpful in tracing and reports requirements needed by the school institutions. It is necessary for university to stay connected with their graduates to determine their life path or movement. itry to inclujde references/ citations to some statements to support eaadch statement for the 1st paragraph until the 3rd paragraph
Many educational institutions struggle to maintain a connection of their alumni. Graduates may become disconnected due to changes in their personal circumstances, such as relocation or career shifts and family obligations. Since they currently live in modern society where digital innovates and technology is always with us. The educational institutions must adapt the modern technology to enhance alumni engagement. Living in this modern era where people continue to rely on technology to stay connected, informed and entertained as well as to perform tasks more efficiently. Developing an alumni tracer management system presents an opportunity for educational institutions to keep in touch the graduates. This web applications very important not only for the graduates but for the administrations as well. It can easily simplify and lighten our works in many different ways. In this modern era, people often use technology to do things faster and make the tasks easier.
The implementation of the “Development of Alumni Tracer Management System” is a web application aimed to monitor the institution graduates and stay connected, informed about relevant events and initiatives. Through the “Development of Alumni Tracer Management System” alumni will have the opportunity to establish connections with their peers who have also graduated from the institutions. This encourages a community among graduates, enabling them to ask for assistance, exchange expertise, and build meaningful connections. Not just for the graduates but also for the administration, that allows the university to track the students who have graduated. The administration can communicate with their alumni using this technology to keep them informed about the university’s latest news, as well as invite graduates to participate in upcoming events.
The Development of Alumni Tracer Management System is an important project for the university, aiming to establish a comprehensive web application to effectively monitor and engage with the graduates. With this web application will enable graduates to maintain communication and stay updated on relevant events and initiatives in school. It also allows alumni to connect with others who graduated from the same institutions. In addition to helping alumni, the system provides significant advantages for the administration, allowing them to efficiently track graduated students and connect with alumni. The administration can invite alumni to participate in upcoming activities and notify them of the latest news from the university through push notifications. This initiative is a living example of the dedication to build lasting connections with the graduates and providing them with the support and resources they need.


Statement of the Problem
 Tracing the graduates and sending of survey forms is also a problem. The administration struggles to keep alumni informed about their employment status. Despite efforts to reach out all the graduates quarterly, some alumni do not respond. The lack of responsiveness from certain alumni to administrative notifications asking for the latest information on graduate’s employment status, making it difficult for the administration to stay informed about the graduate’s employment status. Specifically, the present study seeks to answer the following questions:
1.What is the current process used by the planning office of the university in terms of managing its alumni ‘s employability data and records?
2.What is the level of difficulty encountered by Central Philippines State University Planning Office and its personnel of different campuses in terms of;
a.Notification of alumni student to fill-up employability tracer form.
b.Con
c.solidation of employability of the alumni students per campuses.
d.Representation of percentage pf employed students.
3.What are the technical requirements needed in the Development of Alumni Tracer Management System?
4.How efficient and effective is the development of Alumni Tracer Management System?

Objectives 

	A web-based online application for alumni, entitled “Development of Alumni Tracer Management System” that the main objectives is to keep alumni linked to the institution while also allowing the administrations to keep track of them. This is the only option to maintain contact with the former students. More specifically, this study aimed to create database system to keep all the files of the alumni.
Specifically, this project aims to:
1.To maintain the long-term record of all the college graduates.
2.To properly manage the information ‘s of the alumni.
3.To immediately notify the alumni about the school news, events and other activities through push notification.
4.To keep track of the employment status of the alumni.
5.Analyze well the scope of your study/ system to capacitate all the objectives that can be met by your system.l

Significance of the Study

	The result of the study will help the university to stay connected with its alumni and intended to improve the tracker system of the school. It saves time and efforts of the school to track the alumni. This project study will benefit the following:
The CPSU Administration. This study will help university administrations especially the Planning’s Office in tracking alumni whereabouts and can easily informed if there’s a school related event. 
The Alumni. The students will be able to easily update their employment status and to keep track with the school events and activities.
Future Researchers. This study will serve as relative information for other researchers and will aid them in developing their own online applications and creating their own version of the Alumni Tracer for future use.

Scope and limitations

This capstone project entitled “Development of Alumni Tracer Management System” is focused on the development of an application in managing and accessing alumni data, which is important for maintaining connections with former students. Only monitoring alumni activity, handle data, and enhance contact between the university and its graduates. It creates simple interfaces for alumni to update their information easily. This system is only available to the graduates of Central Philippines State University Campuses. Student will not be able to utilize the system because it contains confidential information. Specify the scope and limitations of collecting alumnis data. Also state that this system is capable of consolidating all alumnis data of each campus of CPSU

Definition of Terms

Administrator. In this study, it is the one who manage the system, collect data, create a form
Sub-Admin. It is the one who send push notification and inform to the alumni. 
Alumni. In this study means that the former student who has either attended or graduated already in the institutions.
Database. This study means that the storage of the system where the researchers can store files.
Web-Based. In this study, refers to the network connections of the system.
Push Notification. This study serves as the command that the researchers used to send notifications to the alumni.
- include here all the high technical terms that can be seen both in documents and system.
- must be alphabetical


































CHAPTER II


REVIEW OF RELATED LITERATURES AND SYSTEMS



This chapter provides a review of related literature and studies that will help the researchers gather basic data and references for the current study. Important facts were provided by the researchers to support the significance and relevance of the Development of Alumni Tracer Management System’s creation.

Foreign System

Alumni Tracking System
(www.iosrjen.org/Papers/Conf.ICIATE-2018/Volume-8/17-80-86.pdf)


According to the MihirJayavant (2018), Alumni Tracking System is an online-based application that helps to enhance the tracking of college graduates. The project primarily aims to replace current tracking procedure of college graduates and providing alumni data to college faculties. It aims at developing a mobile application and web portal which will be useful for the college to monitor the alumni's and for the alumni to update their current status and get notified about the college activities.
The Communication between graduates and the institution can be very beneficial in many situations. For instance, the institution may be interested in extending an invitation for a guest lecture to one of its alumni who is a very successful entrepreneur now. But without having proper contact, the institution will have to spend time tracing the contact. Thus, maintaining consistent data goes hand-in-hand with establishing proper communication. The proposed of this system is to help in accomplishing this, where alumni can communicate among themselves, with their juniors and with the organization. This way they can build a strong network of professionals. This system proves to be beneficial to the current students of the institution since they get the contacts of their seniors from whom they can seek for opportunities and guidance. The admin can communicate with the alumni as well and be notified of any update made by the users to their profile through weekly reports. Apart from communication and admin report, the system also allows users to create events. The upcoming events would be displayed in the home page; thus, the user would be reminded of the events to be happening so that they would not miss out any important event.
In this literature these alumni tracking system is an online based application that helps to enhance the tracking of college graduates. It is also similarity to the researcher’s system; it will also lessen the works of college faculties. It also developing a mobile app and web portal while the researcher’s system using only web application and push notification. The important thing here is it will track the alumni graduates.

Web-Based Abulyatama Alumni Information System
(Web-Based Abulyatama Alumni Information System | International Journal Education and Computer Studies (IJECS) (lembagakita.org)

According to Ardiansyah, T. M. (2021), Tracer study is a study of tracer traces of graduates or alumni carried out to alumni after graduation. The obstacle faced by STMIK Abulyatama in conducting a tracer study is at the time of data collection, currently collecting data manually by distributing questionnaires and telephone interviews with alumni and companies. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a complete E-Tracer study service, which can provide information for higher education institutions for the benefit of curriculum improvements, trace alumni in detail and determine user satisfaction of college graduates. The research objectives are; (1) To find out the alumni information system using a web-based programming language, (2) Designing an alumni management information system using Data Flow Diagrams (DAD) and programming languages ​​such as HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, PHP and MySQL as databases, and (3) To improve the existing system to be even better, by building an information system that can improve performance on alumni data collection at Abulyatama University. The stages in the research consist of; literature study, data collection, systems analysis, system development, and report generation. Based on the results of the alumni information system analysis, it can be seen that until now it is still done manually. The author can conclude several things, namely; (1) With a Web-Based Alumni Information System, it is hoped that it will make work easier and accurate and more time-efficient information can be obtained, (2) The use of a manual system has limitations in the data search process, because the data is still stored in archive form, ( 3) Difficulty in updating the latest data for publication to the public, and (4) With this application, it is expected to simplify and speed up the administrative process at Abulyatama University.
In this study has features like to find out the alumni information system using a web-based programming language, designing an alumni management information system using data flow diagrams and programming languages such as, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, PHP and MySQL as databases and to improve the existing system to be even better. It somehow related to researchers’ system because it traces the alumni to collect data information.

Designing Mobile Alumni Tracer Study System Using Waterfall Method: an Android Based
(https://eprints.upnyk.ac.id/32861/)
According to Sadi, Sadi and Lucitasari, Dyah Rachmawati and Khannan, Muhammad Shoqid Abdul (2015), the industrial revolution 4.0 has become a paradigm that is being widely discussed both in the industrial sector as well as in the field of education and currently the development of technology has become increasingly rapid with almost everyone currently having a handphone with an android operating system. This opportunity needs to be utilized for institutional development in the Industrial Engineering Department UPN Veteran Yogyakarta (IE UPNVY) especially for alumni searches. The data of alumni currently owned has not been systematically compiled and the alumni data entering the department is still very minimal. This study will develop an android application for tracking alumni of the IE UPNVY Study Program. The research methodology used is qualitative descriptive with a prototyping system development method and data collection techniques through interviews and observation. The tools used in designing Android applications to search IEUPNVY alumni are using Java JDK, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Android ADT. The expected results of this study are in the form of an android application for alumni search and analysis of alumni data obtained. Analysis in the form of a description of the graduates' profile and the relevance of the Industrial Engineering Study Program curriculum through a survey approach. The variable profile of graduates includes: 1) the waiting period for graduates, 2) the percentage of graduates who have worked, and 3) the first income earned.
The development of the technology has become increasingly rapid with almost everyone currently having a handphone. With the widespread use of Android smartphones, presenting an opportunity for institutional development, particularly in tracking alumni for the Industrial Engineering Department at UPN Veteran Yogyakarta (IE UPNVY). To address this, they're developing an Android app to track alumni which is similar to the researchers’ system, but a web-based application that also to track an alumni.

Alumni Tracer System Berbasis Web (https://fmipa.unmul.ac.id/files/docs/20.%20Miftahul%20Khair.pdf)
According to the Miftahul Khair (2016), alumni are an important part of a university as well as to the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences Mulawarman. Documenting alumni suboptimal cause lack obtain useful information from alumni to the alumni themselves, the faculty, and students who are still active in college. Those problems can be overcome by the use of tracer system through the website (web based) that is connected to the database for data and information on alumni who owned can be better structured. In addition, the data collection and dissemination of information can be run efficiently. Tracer system is also designed to be a medium to share information that can be useful to the users of the system. The design of this system were made through various stages beginning with the design phase of software using the Unified Modeling Language (UML), the interface design stage to the implementation stage using PHP and MySQL database. This study will generate data and information from the alumni that can later be used by the faculty, the alumni, the students, and also in order to determine the condition of the alumni in the world of work.
It emphasizes the importance of alumni engagement for universities, particularly within the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences at Mulawarman University which also struggles with tracking graduates and obtaining the alumni information. It’s similar to the researchers’ system because it points out the importance of having a system across all campuses of Central Philippines State University. The school also faces challenges in obtaining and updating information about the alumni, especially regarding the employment status. But by using a web-based application tracer system it helps the school institutions to keep track the alumni and gather helpful information from graduates.
An Alumni Portal and Tracking System
https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net 
According to Bista, B., Shakya, A., Joshi, B., Pokhrel, A., Dangol, L., Kedia, M., & Baral, D. S (2021), Alumni tracking is a difficult task for any institution that has been running for a long time. The Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering (DOECE), Pulchowk Campus, IOE, has been offering undergraduate programs since 1994 A.D. and masters programs since 2001 A.D. The existing information about the alumni of the department is unmanaged and out of date. This paper presents a web-based system to integrate data of alumni into a well-managed database, and to act as a portal where alumni can update their current status and view online alumni yearbooks. This work aims to make the task of alumni tracking easier and simpler for the department. The web-based portal has been accessed by many alumni of the department starting from the earliest batches to update their information and see the whereabouts of others. From the collected alumni responses, some preliminary insights observed were: (a) it was seen that alumni seem to be heterogeneous both in their job positions and employers, however, a large portion are employed in the software sector, (b) most alumni (60%) are currently residing in Nepal, and (c) for further education, the USA (39%) seems to be the favored choice, followed closely by Nepal (32.5%).

Foreign Literature

Student Alumni System 
(https://www.academia.edu/21905357/Student_Alumni_System)

According to IJSRD or the International Journal for Scientific Research & Development (2015), The Student Alumni System provides the way in which alumni can stay connected with college which has been very important part of their memory. SAS does not connect only college with its alumni but also it connects current students of college and its alumni. So that the bond between existing students and pass-out students will become strong and there will be direct flow of information between them.
The alumni association is the most important part of an educational institute or an organization. It says a lot about the quality of education imparted in that institute. Part of the reputation of a college rest on its Alma Mater. After the students complete their education, they begin their journey in the corporate world. Many of them attribute a lot to the kind of education, grooming, opportunities, co-curricular activities and facilities provided by their college. Many students like to come back to their college that has been a very important part of their memory. They like to give back to their college by giving their valuable time. They feel obliged to the institute that opened new avenues of jobs for them by building them academically strong. Most of the good colleges ensure an all-round development of the students. They have special sessions to grill the students and prepare them for the interviews. There are various kinds of co-curricular activities and competitions organized by the college. Such events create memories for the students to cherish for a lifetime.
In this literature according to IJSRD, the SAS provides the way in which alumni can stay connected with college which has been very important part of their memory. It somehow related because SAS will give announces for further opened new avenues of job, but the researcher’s system giving announcement about alumni event, meeting and can update their information.


ALUMNI TRACER STUDY SYSTEM DESIGN USING WEB-BASED GPS (CASE STUDY OF UNIVERSITAS ADVENT INDONESIA)
(https://doi.org/10.35974/isc.v7i1.2006)
According to the Thomas, G. G., & Wagiu, E. (2019), graduate is one of the important support in the development of a university. Graduate have a role to assist universities in developing the university into the community through collaboration in academic terms. Since the establishment of the Adventist University of Indonesia (UNAI) to date has resulted in 12 608 qualified graduates, but the problems that exist today data on students graduated from UNAI difficult to find because UNAI not have a special service for containing information about the data the continuation of a career each of graduate that will be created as the relationships that can support the advancement of the quality of the Graduate at Adventist University of Indonesia.

Local System

Occupation search helper with alumni tracking for college graduating college students of Colegio De San Juan De Letran Calamba 
(http://ejournals.ph/form/cite.php?id=10909)

According to Aramil, J. A., Brul, J. A., Derequito, B. G. & Chavez, E. P. (2015), The research developed a web application to help the alumni officer resolve the tedious and time-consuming method of managing and retrieving alumni data and to provide affiliate companies a means of disseminating job opening information to Letran alumni applicants. Descriptive research design was used to better understand the depth of the problems in the situation and to formulate the study’ s objectives and develop the needed system. A survey was done to test the acceptance and efficiency of the system with 25 Letran alumni, four company representatives, and the alumni officer. Results of the study showed that the system proved to be both easy to use and useful for the respondents. It met the study’s objectives by improving the retrieval, gathering and management of alumni information. It also provided a means of disseminating job opening information from affiliate companies to Letran alumni, not just as an additional way of accomplishing tracer forms, but also as a way of applying for jobs directly through the system.
In this literature the feature of these system is it also a web application to help the alumni officer resolve the tedious and time-consuming method, and also the alumni can apply for jobs directly through the system, while the researcher’s system is a web application but cannot directly apply job to the system but can notify the alumni about the opening of upcoming job offers.

AEMILIANUM COLLEGE INC. ALUMNI TRACER SYSTEM (https://www.globalscientificjournal.com/researchpaper/AEMILIANUM_COLLEGE_INC_ALUMNI_TRACER_SYSTEM.pdf)
According to Joyce S. Arbaja, Josefina R. Sarmiento, Milan E. Bausa (2023), to keep up with the constant usage of technology in daily life, there is now a need to gain the essential skills to keep up with the increasing technological progress in many countries. Technology implementation can be seen in a variety of professional disciplines, industries, and even the average home. Different sorts of technology are now being used to improve efficiency, increase output, and bring answers to present concerns and problems. Universities throughout the world are promptly recognizing the importance of gathering data on and from their graduates in order to assess and enhance institutional quality while also monitoring career outcomes. Change existing and create new curricula, as well as impact institutional performance management systems. The researcher conducted a study on an alumni tracer system to trace the ACI alumni employment status, work alignment, and job whereabouts, as well as collect a high rate of data collection from the alumni utilizing an internet-based system for alumni records. The project examined alumni job employment history to determine if it matched with the Bachelor's degree: status for curriculum creation, as well as established a productive and accurate means to collect alumni whereabouts/ data. Through charts, the website can generate/provide data analysis. The institution has never had an easy way of tracking down and managing graduates. More information from the graduates was needed to trace the graduates. For the department to have enough information regarding Aemilianus College Inc. alumni. It was critical that they have a system that keeps track of their graduates. The ACI Alumni Tracer System assisted the institution in easily tracking graduates and obtaining the information they require about the graduates. This system allowed the department's professors to obtain critical information such as the graduates' employment rate, career experiences, educational background, and program outcomes.
The proponent learned from this study that is essential to implement the development of alumni tracer management system in school institutions to track alumni employment status, and whereabouts using a web-based application to provide a solution to the administration's struggles in tracking employment status and managing graduates. 

DEVELOPMENT AND EVALUATION OF AN APP-BASED ALUMNI TRACER SYSTEM WITH STATISTICAL SUPPORT
(https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=alumni+tracer+system&hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C5&as_ylo=2014&as_yhi=2024)
According to Jenny Rose V. Wenceslao College of Information and Computing Studies, Northern Iloilo State University, Estancia, Iloilo, Philippines he App-based Alumni Tracer System with Statistical Support was specifically developed for the purpose of bridging the gap between alumni and the schools with the use of a computer-based solution employing web and mobile technologies. Specifically, it sought determine the level of usability and acceptability among school officials and alumni as users. Moreover, it also evaluated the performance of the developed system in terms of time behavior and accessibility. This study employed the descriptive research design. The data were gathered through a survey questionnaire that primarily solicited the perception of respondents about the various functionalities of the developed system using the McCall’s Software Evaluation Criteria for Software Quality Model and the ISO/IEC 25010 Software Characteristics. There was a total of 87 respondents comprising of five experts in the field of information technology, alumni affairs director, ten department chairpersons and sixty-six alumni respondents from the BSCS program of batches 2015 and 2016. The Waterfall Model was used in the Software Development Life Cycle. Moreover, the mean statistic was used to interpret the results. The finding revealed that in terms of reliability and learn ability, the developed system gained a verbally interpretation of “Very Good”. It was easy to learn because of its simple interface design due to its interactive user design. Moreover, the usability and acceptability of the developed system yielded a description of “Very Good” which meant that the system was very usable in terms of monitoring the alumni. The speed of transaction and security of data of Android-based Alumni Tracer with Statistical Support has been described as “Very Good”. Monitoring on the status and whereabouts of alumni was efficiently fast. It was able to meet user requirements through its various functional components and provided accurate results with good level of precision.
	In this study the App-based Alumni Tracer System with Statistical Support was developed to connect alumni and schools using computer-based solutions involving web and mobile technologies. It somehow related to the researchers’ system because it aims to maintain a connection of a graduates and its school institutions. By developing the alumni tracer management system, the university get a simple way to keep track of the alumni data.

Development of an Alumni Database for a University
https://ejournals.ph/article.php?id=2728
According to Etcuban, J. O. & Durano, D. S. (2015), databases for alumni are vital to every learning institution. The data and information are needed by the school to communicate, verify, archive and research the alumni. These are also used to validate the gap between the knowledge and skills possess by the graduates and the required qualifications needed by industries. It determined the effectiveness of instructions in the college and achievement of its graduates. The study aimed to design and develop an alumni database of the University of Cebu that would provide solutions to problems in tracing alumni. The proposed system would enable users to register as well as generate information for the purpose of tracing the whereabouts of the alumni. The descriptive developmental method was utilized, and two sets of researchers made questionnaires were administered to 95 respondents. Percentages, ranks, and weighted means were used in the treatment of the gathered data. The alumni database was developed based on Commission on Higher Education – Graduate Tracer Study survey questionnaire and was tested by the users based on user-friendliness, system security, and accessibility. The study revealed that an alumni database system is by far a better tool, cost-saving, and time-saving mechanism than the traditional method of recording data. It will also streamline the university’s concern for assisting alumni in disseminating relevant developments to other stakeholders around the globe. The developed alumni database system is highly recommended for use.
The proponent used this as a basis in developing an alumni tracer management system that would help the institutions stay connected with the graduates, manage relationships and gather necessary information. 

Local Literature 

Online Alumni Information System Satisfies Alumni in an Educational Institution in Cebu City, Philippines 
(http://ejournals.ph/form/cite.php?id=12056)

According to Alegado, L.M (2015), The internet is a powerful tool for connectivity. It has become the avenue for most people to exchange information, knowledge, and apparently, almost everyone is present on the web. The Online Alumni Information System aimed to evaluate the status of the existing alumni information system in the aspect of accessibility, reliability and timeliness. It also identified the problems encountered in the current alumni information system, determine the features of good online alumni information system, and design a prototype of online alumni information system. The study used the descriptive method of research using the researcher-made questionnaire to gather data. There were 116 respondents in the study using purposive sampling technique. To obtain the relevant data, the alumni provide their answers to the researcher-made questionnaire. The results revealed that the respondents were able to acquire accurate documents or alumni information from the school after graduation, and they were satisfied with those obtained documents. The common problems encountered include the absence of the programs/ activities organized by the alumni, no communication with the graduates, and outdated profiles of the graduates. The study concludes that an Online Alumni Information System should be designed and developed to provide easy access to information to all stakeholders.
In this literature the feature of these system is to aimed to evaluate the status of the existing alumni information system in the aspect of accessibility, reliability and timeless. In our system, the alumni cannot access the system except in the page where they can update their employment status. The system is strictly only for college faculties to avoid getting information of the alumni data. 

Uspian Alumni Tracer on 20 Higher Education Programs 
(https://ejournals.ph/article.php?id=11611)
The alumni tracer study focused on USPian alumni from 20 higher education programs spanning from Classes 2001 to 2010, specifically those majoring in English, Political Science, Psychology, Music, and others. Using a descriptive research design, 2668 alumni were traced, resulting in a 12.7% response rate from 340 alumni. The study found that the majority of alumni are employed in fields related to their degree and are primarily based in the Philippines, with a minority working in 15 different foreign countries. Recommendations include improving alumni profiling, addressing unemployment issues, and conducting industry-focused alumni research for future studies. (Kathleen B. Solon-Villaneza, 2015). 
	 The researchers learned from this literature of why such a system is essential for universities to maintain a connection and trace the alumni employment status. 




























CHAPTER III


METHODOLOGY


Workflow


	This chart shows a sequence of connected steps of the manual process in tracking alumni.









